[MUSIC]
Hi, I'm David Silver, and I'm going to
talk about deep reinforcement learning.
So let's remind ourselves why we
care about reinforcement learning.
Reinforcement learning is a very general
purpose framework that lets us think
about all kinds of different
decision making problems.
So it really provides a way to think about
any problem where there's an agent, and
the agent gets to take
actions in the world.
And importantly, that agent's actions
actually affect the world, and
the world in turn changes as a result and
gives some observations back to the agent.
And the agent gets to choose
the actions that maximize
its performance in the world that's
measured by some kind of reward signal.
So this is such a general problem, it can
be applied to all kinds of things, from
robots to games to financial transactions,
whatever you think of reinforcement
learning, it's this problem framework
that lets us do all of those things.
So deep learning is a way to, it's
actually a general-purpose framework to
help us solve a wide variety of problems.
It's a way to think about representation
learning in a very general way.
In particular, if we give it an objective,
then deep learning gives a way to build up
a representation that actually
achieve that objective,
a way to start with these inputs
that kind of filter into the system.
And build up some kind of features that
help to understand those inputs in
a way that helps to solve the problem
using minimal domain knowledge.
You don't have to put a lot
of knowledge into the system.
You just pass something in, like an image
of something like a cat or a dog,
and the system builds up features to
understand patches of this image and
then more complicated features.
And eventually comes up with a decision,
for
example, to say whether this
thing is a cat or a dog.
So if we put these two things together,
deep reinforcement learning is
the combination of the two.
Really, we're trying to seek an agent
that can solve any human level task.
That's our ultimate goal here,
that's why many of us are interested
in artificial intelligence.
And if we want to achieve that goal,
well, how can we do it?
Well, the problem can be defined
by reinforcement learning, but
deep learning maybe gives us
the mechanism that helps us to get there.
So RL is like the problem and
deep learning is more like the solution.
So here's a big conjecture.
And a big conjecture is that RL + DL,
if we put these two things together,
it gives us a recipe that can carry us
maybe most of the way towards our big
goal, our big ambitions of being
able to solve any of these problems.
So let's just dive in a little bit
to understand what deep learning is
all about.
So the main piece of deep learning is
this thing called a neural network.
And a deep neural network really
is just something that's,
you can think of as a multi-layered
function, a compositional function,
a function of a function of a function.
And so if we just unpack that a little
bit, it's made up of a few pieces.
We start off with some input
that goes into the system,
that might be your image describing
whether this thing is a cat or a dog.
And that gets processed by a bunch of
different functions to give you these kind
of internal states or features.
And each of those things takes weights,
these w's, that kind of tell you what that
function should actually,
do the parameters of the function.
And then that gets processed by
a series of different functions.
Until eventually this thing,
this deep neural network outputs,
after all of these different layers
of computation, some kind of output
describing what the system actually
thinks, like is this a cat or a dog.
And as a result of that, there's one
final step, which is an important step,
which defines the objective of the system,
what it's really trying to do.
And that we call the loss.
That's a number saying how well
this system did, typically a scale,
one if you classified this correctly and
zero if you got it wrong, as an example.
Now, the special thing about these deep
neural networks is that you can actually
not just compute these things
in the forward direction.
But you can actually reverse the flow of
all of that information to work out which
of these parameters led to
that loss being good or bad.
We can understand, if I was to tweak these
parameters in a particular direction,
how would those changing parameters
actually lead to the output changing and
lead to that causing a particular loss?
Would it lead to me predicting this
thing being a cat more or a dog more?
And the way we do that is just by
reversing the direction of flow and
using the chain rule of calculus to
compute the gradient of this whole system,
and that is known as backpropagation.
So the main idea of training a deep neural
network is actually just to use this
gradient to adjust the parameters.
So we compute the gradient of the loss
with respect to the parameters.
And that you can think of as kind of
pointing us in the direction that kind of
goes down the hill in terms of, think of
this big landscape that's describing, for
each point in the landscape is one
potential choice of your parameters.
And the gradient kind of tells you which
direction is going to take you down
that landscape,
where the height of that landscape is
really telling you how good it is.
And downhill might be better,
be your lower error.
We want to move down this landscape by
following the gradient down to the point
that has the lowest error.
And so we just move the parameters
in that direction, and
that really is the fundamental idea
behind training a neural network,
that's the whole idea of deep learning.
Okay, so let's get back to RL again to
understand how we can actually put these
pieces together to really try and
do something amazing.
So if we think about RL agents,
it's really useful to understand
the anatomy of an RL agent.
So the way I think about this is that
there's these major components that may or
may not be inside our agent, and
that really defines the kind of
category of what type of agent it is.
So it might have a policy inside it
that determines that agent's behavior,
in which case we say this is
a policy-based approach to RL.
It may have a value function inside it,
which kind of describes the agent's
predictions about how much reward it
will get or potentially other terms.
And in that case,
we call it a value-based RL agent.
And it might have a model inside it,
something saying how the agent thinks
the environment works,
what it thinks is going to happen next.
And so if it has a model inside it,
we say it's a model-based approach to RL.
We can apply the combination of deep
learning and reinforcement learning by
essentially using deep neural
networks as a function approximator.
And that function approximator can be
used to represent any one of these three
kind of major components
of reinforcement learning.
It could be used to represent the policy,
it could be used to represent the value
function, or
it could be to represent the model.
Now, to train this system,
the main idea is really that we
have to pick a loss function.
We have to pick an objective that
describes what we really want in terms
of one of these three kinds of families
of reinforcement learning algorithms.
So if we're doing policy-based
reinforcement learning, then, for example,
we might choose to follow
the policy gradient.
If we're doing value-based
reinforcement learning,
we might choose to minimize the TD error,
the temporal difference error.
And if we were doing model-based
reinforcement learning,
we might choose to minimize
the next-step prediction error.
And so what do we do?
What's the algorithm?
Well, the algorithm is very simple.
Just like in deep learning, all we have to
do is to optimize that loss function by
gradient descent, following this landscape
down and down and down and down, until our
loss gets lower and lower and lower, and
we're doing better and better and better.
So if we put those things together,
it gives us a recipe for
achieving all kinds of interesting
things in reinforcement learning.
And some of those have actually led to
some of the exciting success stories
that we've seen in recent years.
So for example, it's possible to use
a deep reinforcement learning approach
to try and play games to very high levels.
So we've seen agents that were able
to defeat the human world champions
in the game of Go, and indeed in
other games, like chess and so forth.
Or taking this into the modern era,
you might want to play against
in video games as well.
So we have deep reinforcement learning
agents that are able to play 50 or
more completely different
games from the Atari system.
And recently we've had a system which was
able to play the very challenging game
of StarCraft.
This is one of the most challenging
video games for humans.
But it's not just games
that these things can do,
they can have impact on all
kinds of applications as well.
So for example, we've seen deep
reinforcement learning agents that
can learn to manipulate objects
with a great deal of dexterity.
We've seen deep reinforcement learning
agents which were able to solve
chemical synthesis problems by
an approach known as retrosynthesis.
Or we've seen deep reinforcement
learning agents that actually go out and
trade in the real world,
like actually algorithmically deciding
what to do on these trading floors.
So in conclusion, when we combine
the problem of reinforcement learning with
the solution approach of deep learning,
and we use these deep learning methods
to provide us with a powerful tool kit for
function approximation.
We actually have a very flexible and
powerful approach that can take us a long
way towards solving many of
the problems that we care about in AI.